The VAPT Toolkit Installer is designed as a lightweight, portable toolset installer, built specifically for Ubuntu 22.04. It enables quick and streamlined installation of a comprehensive suite of security tools for vulnerability assessment, penetration testing, and digital forensics. Ideal for both beginners and experienced security professionals, this toolkit allows you to set up a fully functional and portable security tool environment that can be moved and replicated across multiple systems.

Purpose
This installer is intended to make it easy to deploy a broad range of security tools without requiring individual installation and configuration steps for each tool. 

The toolkit covers a wide spectrum of functionality, including but not limited to:

Exploitation frameworks
Web application testing tools
Network scanning and enumeration tools
OSINT (Open Source Intelligence) and reconnaissance tools
Password cracking and fuzzing tools
Forensic and auditing tools

Features
Portable: Simply copy the installer and deploy the entire toolset on any Ubuntu 22.04 system.
Lightweight: Designed to run smoothly on Ubuntu 22.04 with minimal setup overhead.
Comprehensive Toolset: Provides a robust suite of tools in various categories necessary for ethical hacking, penetration testing, and system security auditing.
Easy Updates: Includes a menu option to update all installed tools to ensure that you always have the latest versions.

Installation
Download the Installer: Clone or download the installer to the target Ubuntu 22.04 machine.

git clone https://github.com/sec0ps/va-pt.git
cd va-pt

Run the Installer Script:

python3 vapt-installer.py

Note: The script should not be run as root. It will automatically use sudo where necessary to install required packages and manage permissions.

Choose Installation Options: After starting the installer, you will see a menu with the following options:

Install Base Toolkit Dependencies: Installs essential packages required by various tools (e.g., Git, Python, etc.).
Install Toolkit Packages: Installs the main toolkit components, including exploitation frameworks, web testing tools, and more.
Install Wordlist Files for Password Cracking: Downloads and extracts commonly used wordlists for password cracking activities.
Install OpenVAS: Installs and sets up OpenVAS, a popular vulnerability scanner.
Update Toolsets: Checks each installed tool for updates and applies them as necessary.
Exit: Exits the installer.

Tools Included
The toolkit includes a wide variety of tools organized into categories:

Exploitation Frameworks: Metasploit, Social-Engineer Toolkit, and more.
Web Testing Tools: Nikto, ZAP Proxy, Arachni, and others.
Network Scanners: Nmap, DNSRecon, and SQLMap.
OSINT/Intel Tools: Recon-ng, theHarvester, Spiderfoot, etc.
Password Tools: John the Ripper, Hashcat, and CeWL.
Forensics & Audit Tools: PowerSploit, Nessus, OpenVAS, and more.

Updating Tools
Select the Update Toolsets option in the menu to update all installed tools. The script will:

Pull the latest code from each tool’s repository.
Reinstall or rebuild the tools as necessary to apply updates.
Update specific tools like OpenVAS and Nessus if they are installed on the system.

Requirements
Operating System: Ubuntu 22.04
Python 3: Required for running the installer script.
Sudo Access: Certain installations require elevated permissions.

Notes
The installer is designed for Ubuntu 22.04 and may not be compatible with earlier versions or other distributions.
It is recommended to keep the toolkit up-to-date by periodically selecting the Update Toolsets option to ensure all tools are current.

License
This project is released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
